In the last lecture we have changed our database Cedar from using the D.B. first state to use that data
defined statically inside our database cedar to the model factories that we already have for our models.
So you can also remove this use statement for the DB for said us we are not using it anymore.
And even if he tries to code highlights it as being not used.
So that's an unnecessary import.
So let's remove that now and now let's go back to our seeder and see how we can insert all the older
models that we have in our application which is the block posts and comments.
But first let's take a look at our users so we know that currently the block poster requires to have
a user I.D. column specified so that each blog post is created by a specific user so we can make it
easier for ourselves and use collections in here.
So what I mean by that is we can create a single collection from those models created in this two steps
and then iterate over this collection and then create the necessary blog posts for each user.
So let's see what I mean.
First we'll assign those calls to specific variables so we will create a DOE variable for the John Doe
and maybe else for all the other users so let's call D.D. and see what we got here because we will get
model instance from this call because we are creating only one model you can see we are not specifying
how many models we want created using this specific state.
So this create function create method will return a single user model and that's not the case with the
second call because we have specified that we want 20 models so it will return a collection so we can
use this data to dump the class name of those results.
So let's do that now.
Deedee get glass DOE and get glass for.
Else now Let's rerun the migrate refresh command with this seed flag and you can see that the first
one we have the user model and for the second one we have a collection.
So now to make a single collection of all these models we can create another variable and call it users
so seems the LS is already a collection we can use Comcast to add element to it.
So this would have to be an array and we can add this single dough.
So now that we have this collection object inside user as a variable we can check if it actually keeps
this 21 user models inside it and we can call the count method on this collection.
So collection is basically a wrapper for arrays but in state instead like it is with a race to modify
an array or use it you will call a peach B functions from the array category and pass on array to it
and collections instead give you an object which you which holds the data inside an array and then lets
you call methods directly on this object like the count for example.
So let's rerun peach B artisan migrate refresh with seed flag to see if we actually have 21 elements
so we can see in the bottom that we actually have.
So this works great.
Now let's remove this line as we won't need it anymore and the next most sensible step would be to add
some blog posts and this is because we cannot create any comments at this point because every comment
has to have a blog post I.D. assigned so obviously without any blog post we wouldn't be able to save
any comments.
Now we can assign this blog post to the posts variable as we will use it later for the comments and
we can also use their factory function to create some blog posts the same as we did with the users and
maybe we will like to create 50.
So now we can't just call the create method because every blog post has to have user I.D. assigned and
we haven't done that in any place so let's see what would happen if we will call this right now.
Now we have that that error that filled the user I.D. doesn't have a default value and we haven't provided
any.
So the comment failed.
Now instead of using create here which creates a new model and immediately saves it we can call make.
So make will just create instances of the blog post models but it won't save it yet.
Now scenes make will create a collection because we have specified that we want 50 elements we can iterate
over this collection using the collection methods.
And there is on each method which allows you to do something on every element of this collection so
it accepts a closure
and inside disclosure will get every single post from this collection.
Now to assign a user I.D. will use this user's collection but to use variable from the outside outside
scope of this closure.
We need to add I use so normally you cannot access any variable that haven't been passed to a closure
or is from outside scope like from outside the closure.
So you have to add this use statement.
Now we can simply said the user I.D. property of the post and use our users collection.
And now what we would like to do is we would like to randomize the way we assign users to blog posts
and collections has another useful method called random.
So what this would do is from the list of the 21 users that we have it will pick a random one.
So since this will return are user model we can use that idea.
Property of that model.
And as we have used make not create those blog post models are are not safe yet at this point.
So we have to call save at the very end of this closure.
And now let's take a look at the terminal and we'll run them migrate refresh again and see if that works.
So everything seems to be successful.
And now refresh the blog posts and you can see that there are a couple of pages of the blog posts specifically
50 blog posts and each of them have random user I.D. assigned.
So if you will now go to the posts on our application you can see that there is quite a lot of blog
posts but without any comments.
So now let's go back to our visual studio code and see how we can add comments.
So obviously we'll use the same method as we did with users and blog posts.
Maybe we can create even a hundred fifty.
We'll use make again because every comment has to have a blog post assigned before it is saved will
the closure that will get passed our comment which obviously is every single instance from this collection.
And this time we have to use that posts variable so maybe close this window so it is clearly visible.
So now on every single comment we can specify the blog post I.D. which would be our relation to a blog
post and we can do the same as we did with the users.
We can pick our random blog post and get an I.D. of this random blog post and finally call save on the
Comment Comment model.
So now let's clear the terminal and rerun the migrate refresh and refresh the page.
Now we can see that we have different titles for those blog posts because they get regenerated every
single time with the random text using faker inside the model factory.
You can see that every blog post has a different amount of comments.
Also inside the database you can see that every comment have a random blog post assigned so what you
see here is the simplest approach to creating seeders inside your letter of application.
We have just put everything what we need inside the single run method of our database cedar class.
And another way is to create specific cedar classes for different models and we can also accept some
input from the users.
For example they can specify how many specific models they would like to create.
And we will see how to do that in the next lecture.